What is worth doing?
====================

A lot of times; and more than once is a "lot of times", people have questioned the worth or the feasibility of one of my or the club's endeavours. In quite a few articles that you might see in this collection, I have emphasised how you could see running a club like running any other organisation, perhaps a company or perhaps a nation, or perhaps even a civilisation. But in this piece, I would like to deviate a bit and draw out an emphasis on luxuries that we possess as a club which other organisations would be rare to enjoy. These luxuries make the feasibility analysis pointed out in the first sentence of this paragraph unique as compared to other problems of a similar nature. What are these luxuries? We are not obliged to make profit on the books. Noone's livelihood depends on our activities. In spite of this uneconomic nature of our existence, we have virtually unlimited resources. We are only limited by human capital and time. This is great, and I understand that when people question the worth of an activity, they do so concerning these latter factors. We have limited capital and time, so why invest them in activities that impact fewer people? 

Because we have to lead. Ford is famously quoted "If I had asked the public what they wanted, they would have said faster horses". Your audience or the people you serve do not understand what's good and what's not. You hold a duty to be on higher ground and see the bigger picture for everyone. And lead them. Sure, you may be wrong. But you keep faith in your beliefs and pave the way for others. You participate in activities that you believe everyone should be interested in. If they are not, figure out how to get them involved. An entrepreneur does not invent what people need today, but what she thinks they might need tomorrow. And one thing that makes her successful, her vision and forecast turned to reality, is the tsunami of conviction that she brings with herself. 

A good example of the seemingly worthless leadership that I am pointing you towards is haute couture, that is the fashion industry which comes up with the most absurd designs, at least in perfect example of the seemingly worthless leadership that I am pointing you towards is haute couture, that is the fashion industry which comes up with the most absurd designs, at least in the judgment of us commoners. Why do you think it exists? Who buys those dresses? No one has ever seen anyone other than the models on the ramp put up with the absurdity. What then, is the point? Well, the designers are showcasing their creativity and technique. Even if the whole dress is horseshit, it is emphasising some embroidery or sewing technique not very prevalent in the current age, or perhaps they are showcasing new material, or maybe they are making a statement for the social cause. In any case, the effects which these fashion shows have on society is indirect. These techniques or materials will slowly trickle down into commonplace attire. To adapt these techniques is the job of the designers which lie second in place in the fashion food chain. They are not the leaders, but they are the ones that really make stuff for the general public. 

Now, my child, who do you want to be? Do you want to be the leader who invests in useless, but creative technologies, and builds things which no one understands now, but it will be adapted into something that everyone will use, or it will get morphed into an idea that will indirectly affect lives? Or do you want to be the second in command who executes ideas that benefit most people?

So do not measure the worth of doing a thing by its returns right now, measure it by the impact that it can potentially have in the future if you perfect it. Say you try something, a new idea, and it crashes. What shall you do? Ditching it should be the last thing on your mind. Instead, figure out the reasons it crashed, try it again with improvements, repeat till you cannot settle for any good reasons. 

To summarise, conclude and answer the question in the title, anything that you believe in.
